README.md, before:

# MoneyMoney Extension: Sum by Bank

This is an AppleScript extension for the great [MoneyMoney software](https://moneymoney-app.com/) to generate an Excel list with all sums by bank account.  
This is e.g. useful to monitor certain threshold values per bank.

## Installation

For this AppleScript to work it is necessary to add a custom attribute `bankIdentifier` to each account in MoneyMoney
that you want to track. The sums are then summed up by this chosen bank identifier.

*Note: Basically a better way would be to group by account bic but not all accounts do have a bic (e.g. credit cards).* 

If you want to use the AppleScript within the services menu of the _MoneyMoney_ application, the best way is to use the [Mac Automator](https://support.apple.com/de-de/guide/automator/aut73234890a/mac): 
1. Create a new "Quick Action Workflow" in Automator 
1. Choose "No Input" in "MoneyMoney"
1. Add the action "Execute AppleScript" and paste the contents of the file `moneymoney-sum-by-bank.scpt` into the text box
1. Save the workflow

Then you have a new menu item with the chosen name in _MoneyMoney > Services_.

## Usage

After click on the new menu item in _MoneyMoney > Services_, Microsoft Excel will open and show all bank sums in a descending order:  
![Excel file with sums by bank account](moneymoney-sum-by-bank.png "Excel file with sums by bank account")

For more information see also [my blog post](https://knete-rechner.de/geld-wissen/moneymoney-maximum-pro-bank/).

## Notes

- The MoneyMoney application has to be unlocked when executing the script otherwise an error will be thrown

## Known Limitations
- Support only for Euro currency
- Accounts with no `bankIdentifier` attribute are ignored in export file

## License

[![GPLv3 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v3-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/)

Commit message:

added configuration options for the resulting excel file

README.md, after:

# MoneyMoney Extension: Sum by Bank

This is an AppleScript extension for the great [MoneyMoney software](https://moneymoney-app.com/) to generate an Excel list with all sums by bank account.  
This is useful e.g. to export the total values per bank to a summary Excel document or to monitor certain threshold values per bank.

## Installation

For this AppleScript to work it is required to add a custom attribute `bankIdentifier` to each account in MoneyMoney
that you want to track. The total values are then summed up by this chosen bank identifier.

At the beginning of the Apple Script file `moneymney-sum-by-bank.scpt` you can then customize the behaviour of the script:

|Variable|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|`exportFileName`|The name of the resulting Excel file. You can either use an existing file or leave it to missing value to create a new one.|
|`startRowIndex`/`startColumnIndex`|The index of the cell row/column to start the table.|
|`isSortDescending`|Whether to sort the resulting sums in a descending order or not.|
|`isCloseExcel`|Whether to close Excel after the export.|

If you optionally want to use the AppleScript within the services menu of the _MoneyMoney_ application, the best way is to use the [Mac Automator](https://support.apple.com/de-de/guide/automator/aut73234890a/mac): 
1. Create a new "Quick Action Workflow" in Automator 
1. Choose "No Input" in "MoneyMoney"
1. Add the action "Execute AppleScript" and paste the contents of the file `moneymoney-sum-by-bank.scpt` into the text box
1. Save the workflow

Then you have a new menu item with the chosen name in _MoneyMoney > Services_.

## Usage

After click on the new menu item in _MoneyMoney > Services_, Microsoft Excel will open and show all bank sums in a descending order:  
![Excel file with sums by bank account](moneymoney-sum-by-bank.png "Excel file with sums by bank account")

As an alternative you can also simply double click on the `moneymney-sum-by-bank.scpt` script to execute it manually.

For more information see also [my blog post](https://knete-rechner.de/geld-wissen/moneymoney-maximum-pro-bank/).

## Notes

- Tested with Excel for Mac 16.43
- The MoneyMoney application has to be unlocked when executing the script otherwise an error will be thrown
- Basically a better way would be to automatically group by account bic but not all accounts do have a bic (e.g. credit cards).

## Known Limitations
- Support only for Euro currency
- Accounts with no `bankIdentifier` attribute are ignored in export file

## License

[![GPLv3 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL%20v3-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/)
